{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green192\blue192;
\red127\green127\blue0;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green0\blue255;\red127\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c49804\c49804;\csgenericrgb\c0\c75294\c75294;
\csgenericrgb\c49804\c49804\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c49804;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c49804\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18840\viewh18040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 These IDL codes are used to detect and record information on regions of temporary brightenings in a time series of images, which the user should prepare as a datacube [x,y,t]. They are originally developed for use with IRIS Slitjaw Images (SJI) datacube. The method is that described in https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.13635. Please cite this work if you use the method in your own work. \
\
If you plan to use the detection code on other types of data, or even on different IRIS datasets, then please take a little time in testing different parameters. The most important ones are the thresholds tlow and thigh, minvol and mintstep (see preamble in bright_point_detect program).\
\
The main procedures are:\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri-2339\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PREP_IRIS_DATACUBE: This code is specific to IRIS SJI data. User supplies a name to a FITS file, and the procedure applies some processing including sub-pixel alignment of each image etc. See preamble in program.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BRIGHT_POINT_DETECT: This is the main program for detection. User supplies a datacube of dimensions [x,y,t], and the procedure returns an array of structures (one structure for each detected bright point), containing some information on each brightening. See preamble in program.\
\
Example call for use with IRIS SJI datacube:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 IDL> fitsfilename=\cf2 './20161104/iris_l2_20161104_193912_3620109603_SJI_1400_t000.fits'\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-603\partightenfactor0
\cf0 IDL> \cf3 prep_iris_datacube\cf0 ,fitsfilenow,\cf3 datacube\cf0 ,hdr,savedir=savedir,lim=lim, $\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1470\partightenfactor0
\cf0 subregion=subregion,create_imagealign_plots=create_imagealign_plots,$\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0     fit_shift=fit_shift,timerange=timerange\
\
IDL> det=\cf4 bright_point_detect\cf0 (datacube, $\
			\cf5 1\cf0 /hdr.exptime,flow=flow,fhigh=fhigh, $\
              time_var_sigma=time_var_sigma, tlow=tlow, thigh=thigh)\
\
IDL> help,det\
DET             STRUCT    = -> <Anonymous> Array[1346]\
\
IDL> \cf6 help\cf0 ,det,/str\
** Structure <45f73198>, 19 tags, length=76, data length=76, refs=1:\
   BG              FLOAT           3.98933\
   TOTB            FLOAT           678.976\
   MAXB            FLOAT           20.6044\
   NVOX            LONG               161\
   NT              LONG                 8\
   NFRAG           FLOAT           1.00000\
   MEANSPEED       FLOAT          0.630572\
   MEANXPOS        FLOAT           59.9531\
   MEANYPOS        FLOAT           22.1430\
   MEANTPOS        FLOAT           1.97326\
   XPOS            POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12052>\
   YPOS            POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12053>\
   TPOS            POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12054>\
   BRT             POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12055>\
   AREA            POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12056>\
   FRAG            POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12057>\
   A               POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12058>\
   B               POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12059>\
   C               POINTER   <PtrHeapVar12060>\
\
IDL> index=\cf7 where\cf0 (det.nfrag \cf8 le\cf0  \cf5 2\cf0 ) \
IDL> \cf4 plot\cf0 ,det[index].meantpos,det[index].meanspeed,/psym,/xst,xtitle=\cf2 'Time step'\cf0 ,ytitle=\cf2 'Mean brightening speed (pix/time step)'\
\cf0 IDL> index=\cf7 where\cf0 (det.nt \cf8 gt\cf0  \cf5 12\cf0 )\
IDL> \cf4 plot\cf0 ,*det[index[\cf5 0\cf0 ]].xpos,*det[index[\cf5 0\cf0 ]].ypos,/psym, $\
		/iso,xtitle=\cf2 'X position'\cf0 ,ytitle=\cf2 'Y position'\cf0 ,/xst,/yst
\f0 \
}